.TH PLAYERCTL "1" "April 2018" "playerctl 0.5.0" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
\fBplayerctl\fR \- utility to control media players via MPRIS
.SH SYNOPSIS
.TP
\fBplayerctl\fR [\fIOPTION\fR] \fICOMMAND\fR
.SH DESCRIPTION
.RE
\fBplayerctl\fR is a command line utility to control MPRIS-enabled media\&
players. In addition to offering play/pause/stop control, \fBplayerctl\fR\&
also offers previous/next track support, the ability to seek backward/forward\&
in a track, and volume control.
\fBplayerctl\fR also supports displaying metadata (e.g. artist/title/album) for the\&
current track, and showing the status of the player.
.PP
Players that can be controlled using \fBplayerctl\fR include audacious, cmus,\&
mopidy, mpd, quod libet, rhythmbox, vlc and xmms2. However, any player that implements\&
the MPRIS interface specification should be able to be controlled using \fBplayerctl\fR.
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-p\fR, \fB\-\-player\fR=\fI\,NAME\/\fR
The name of the player to control (default: first available player)
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-list\-all\fR
List the names of running players that can be controlled
.TP
\fB\-a\fR, \fB\-\-all\-players\fR
Apply command to all available players
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
Print this help, then exit
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
Print version number, then exit
.SH COMMANDS
.TP
\fBstatus\fR
Get the current status of the player
.TP
\fBplay\fR
Command the player to play
.TP
\fBpause\fR
Command the player to pause
.TP
\fBplay\-pause\fR
Command the player to toggle between play/pause
.TP
\fBstop\fR
Command the player to stop
.TP
\fBnext\fR
Command the player to skip to the next track
.TP
\fBprevious\fR
Command the player to skip to the previous track
.TP
\fBposition\fR [\fIOFFSET\fR][\fI+\fR|\fI\-\fR]
Print the position of the current track in seconds. With \fIOFFSET\fR specified, seek to \fIOFFSET\fR seconds from the start of the current track.
With the optional [\fI+\fR|\fI\-\fR] appended, seek forward/backward \fIOFFSET\fR seconds from the current position.
.TP
\fBvolume\fR [\fILEVEL\fR][\fI+\fR|\fI\-\fR]
Print the player's volume scaled from 0.0 (0%) to 1.0 (100%). With \fILEVEL\fR specified, set
the player's volume to \fILEVEL\fR. With the optional [\fI+\fR|\fI\-\fR] appended, increase/decrease the player's
volume by \fILEVEL\fR.
.TP
\fBmetadata\fR [\fIKEY\fR]
Print available metadata information for the current track. When \fIKEY\fR is specified, print the value of \fIKEY\fR.
.SH SEE ALSO
.TP
Online API documentation: https://dubstepdish.com/playerctl
.TP
GObject Introspection language bindings: https://wiki.gnome.org/Projects/GObjectIntrospection/Users
.SH REPORTING BUGS
.TP
Please review and report bugs to https://github.com/acrisci/playerctl/issues
.SH AVAILABILITY
.TP
The latest version of \fBplayerctl\fR is available at https://github.com/acrisci/playerctl
.SH AUTHOR
.TP
This  manual  page was created by Nick Morrott <knowledgejunkie@gmail.com> for the Debian GNU/Linux system, but may be used by others.
.SH COPYRIGHT
.TP
Copyright © 2014, Tony Crisci.
.TP
This work is made available under the GNU Lesser General Public License 3.0.
